# When should you use a neural network over a linear model?

Test how well neural networks and linear models predict output data across four datasets: a squared numbers dataset, a trigonometric dataset (where the output is based on a trigonometric function), a simulated housing price dataset,
and California housing data from 1990 (https://www.kaggle.com/harrywang/housing#housing.csv).

## In this repository you will find six R scripts:

**Setup.R** <br />
This script sets up the R environment for you to work with the following scripts. Contains package installations, hyperparameter specifications, custom functions, etc.

**Data_Generation.R** <br />
This script generates simulated housing market data based on a variety of parameters that can be modified. 

**Neural_Network_Sq.R** <br />
This script runs a neural network and linear model on a squared numbers dataset.

**Neural_Network_Trig.R** <br />
This script runs a neural network and linear model on a trigonometric numbers dataset.

**Neural_Network_Cali.R** <br />
This script runs a neural network and linear model on a California Housing Values dataset.

**Neural_Network_Sim.R** <br />
This script runs a neural network and linear model on the simulated housing data generated by Data_Generation.R.

**Results.R** <br />
This script records how many times the LM RMSE can be divided by the NN RMSE in a dataframe. The script also creates a dataframe for the proportional RMSE values across the four datasets. 

## How to use this repository

1. Run Setup.R - This script will download and load the neuralnet library and set up the relevant paths as well as load a variety of other dependecies the rest of the scripts require.

2. If you would like to run Neural_Network_Sim.R, you first need to generate your own housing data, run Data_Generation.R.

3. In order to run the Results.R script, every other script must be run as Results.R draws the results from testing the NN and LM on each of the datasets and puts the results in a dataframe.
